[Music]
this is the biggest festival or
celebration if you like of elephants in
the country and originally this was set
up to be a reminder of that cultural
traditional heritage link that they have
but also to help educate people about
how critically endangered elephants are
in the wild here
[Music]
people do have an innate respect for
them but at the same time it that that
respect doesn't necessarily translate
into good welfare press used to be able
to get elephant rides in zoos didn't you
100 years ago you know good zoos have
stopped that practice and they stopped
it for a reason
that they're overworked they can be
doing 20 30 different grinds a day an
elephants or they're incredibly powerful
and can push and pull on away they're
not designed to have a heavy weight on
their back it's just taking elephants
that were working elephants in the
forestry industry to being beasts of
burden now for tourists really
[Music]
a calm calm girl
this is calm calm me calm hi pretty girl
what's her story so she was in the
logging industry for about 20 years and
then she was actually at one of the
riding camps here in the Whomper bomb it
was in super bad shape I mean you could
see all of her ribs yeah she's a
completely different girl than the one
who came here
[Music]
you can see here like this big bulge
this big pad that's been left over
that's the remnants of an abscess and
that abscess would have been caused from
her days in a in a logging camp and the
harness that she wore would have rubbed
over it so much that it's effectively
left like a permanent scar if you like
or permanent disfigurement and while she
could say traditionally there might be
some aspect when it comes to using
elephants for logging it to me still
signifies what was abuse really
[Music]
so they're actually able to socialize
with one another proper diet and
veterinary care and really the chance to
interact with one another as they would
as close to possible as they was in wild
so we bring out a very limited number of
guests every day and just do voluntary
interaction with the elephants and then
basically after that we just take a walk
with them through the forests and follow
the elephants and watch em rip down
trees and be elephants
[Music]
I walked away from the elephant
festivals really heavy hearted I felt
very sad disappointed almost like
yeah how on earth can we still let that
happen in this day and age you think it
sounds so basic taking an elephant for a
walk letting an elephant be an elephant
and yet that's so progressive she's
nearly 70 years of age can't be putting
her back out into that too you know
wouldn't be viable it wouldn't be fair
so you know we owe it to her to make
sure that she has the utmost best
quality of life that she can have and
from what I could see and what I feel
that's definitely what she's getting
here
[Music]
[Applause]